README.md, before:

# Vector SIL Kit Adapter for SocketCAN (Linux only)
This collection of software is provided to illustrate how the [Vector SIL Kit](https://github.com/vectorgrp/sil-kit/)
can be attached to a virtual CAN (Controller Area Network) interface [[SocketCAN]](https://docs.kernel.org/networking/can.html) running in Linux kernel.

This repository contains instructions to build the adapter and set up a minimal working development environment.

The main contents are working examples of necessary software to connect the running system to a SIL Kit environment,
as well as complimentary demo applications for some communication to happen.

## Getting Started
Those instructions assume you use a Linux OS (or a virtual machine running a Linux image) for building and running the adapter and use ``bash`` as your interactive
shell. 

**Note:** WSL/WSL2 are excluded from this context as their standard kernels don't support SocketCAN.   

This section specifies steps you should do if you have just cloned the repository.

First, change your current directory to the top-level in the ``sil-kit-adapters-vcan``
repository:

    cd /path/to/sil-kit-adapters-vcan

### Fetch Third Party Software
The first thing that you should do is initializing the submodules to fetch the required third party software:

    git submodule update --init --recursive

Otherwise clone the standalone version of asio manually:

    git clone --branch asio-1-18-2 https://github.com/chriskohlhoff/asio.git third_party/asio

### Build the Adapter
To build the adapter, you'll need an ubuntu SIL Kit package ``SilKit-x.y.z-$ubuntu``. You can download it directly from [Vector SIL Kit Releases](https://github.com/vectorgrp/sil-kit/releases). The easiest way would be to download it with your web browser, unzip it and place it on your file system, where it also can be accessed by ``bash``.

The adapters and demos are built using ``cmake``:

    mkdir build
    cmake -S. -Bbuild -DSILKIT_PACKAGE_DIR=/path/to/SilKit-x.y.z-$ubuntu/ -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
    cmake --build build --parallel

The adapter executable will be available in ``build/bin`` (depending on the configured build directory).
Additionally the ``SilKit`` shared object (e.g., ``libSilKitd.so``) is copied to that directory automatically.

### Run the SilKitAdapterSocketCAN
This application allows the user to attach virtual CAN interfaces (``SocketCAN``) running in Linux environment to the
SIL Kit.

Before you start the adapter there always needs to be a sil-kit-registry running already. Start it e.g. like this:

    ./path/to/SilKit-x.y.z-$ubuntu/SilKit/bin/sil-kit-registry --listen-uri 'silkit://0.0.0.0:8501'

It is also necessary that a virtual CAN interface is already opened and running in Linux kernel before you run the adapter. This can be done using the following terminal commands: 

    sudo modprobe vcan
    ip link add dev can0 type vcan
    ip link set up can0

**Note:** These commands will open a virtual CAN interface with the name ``can0``.

Now you can run the adapter from terminal. 

The application *optionally* takes the following command line arguments:

    ./build/bin/SilKitAdapterSocketCAN [--name <participant name{SocketCAN_silkit}>]
                                       [--registry-uri silkit://<host{localhost}>:<port{8501}>]
                                       [--log <Trace|Debug|Warn|{Info}|Error|Critical|off>]
                                       [--can-name <vCAN device name{can0}>]
                                       [--network <SIL Kit CAN network{CAN1}>]
                                       [--help]

## SocketCAN Demo
The aim of this demo is to showcase a simple adapter that forwards CAN traffic from Linux terminal running a virtual CAN interface through to
Vector SIL Kit. 

This demo is further explained in [SocketCAN/README.md](SocketCAN/README.md).

Commit message:

SKA-244:  Silkit participant configuration file addition (#16)

README.md, after:

# Vector SIL Kit Adapter for SocketCAN (Linux only)
This collection of software is provided to illustrate how the [Vector SIL Kit](https://github.com/vectorgrp/sil-kit/)
can be attached to a virtual CAN (Controller Area Network) interface [[SocketCAN]](https://docs.kernel.org/networking/can.html) running in Linux kernel.

This repository contains instructions to build the adapter and set up a minimal working development environment.

The main contents are working examples of necessary software to connect the running system to a SIL Kit environment,
as well as complimentary demo applications for some communication to happen.

## Getting Started
Those instructions assume you use a Linux OS (or a virtual machine running a Linux image) for building and running the adapter and use ``bash`` as your interactive
shell. 

**Note:** WSL/WSL2 are excluded from this context as their standard kernels don't support SocketCAN.   

This section specifies steps you should do if you have just cloned the repository.

First, change your current directory to the top-level in the ``sil-kit-adapters-vcan``
repository:

    cd /path/to/sil-kit-adapters-vcan

### Fetch Third Party Software
The first thing that you should do is initializing the submodules to fetch the required third party software:

    git submodule update --init --recursive

Otherwise clone the standalone version of asio manually:

    git clone --branch asio-1-18-2 https://github.com/chriskohlhoff/asio.git third_party/asio

### Build the Adapter
To build the adapter, you'll need an ubuntu SIL Kit package ``SilKit-x.y.z-$ubuntu``. You can download it directly from [Vector SIL Kit Releases](https://github.com/vectorgrp/sil-kit/releases). The easiest way would be to download it with your web browser, unzip it and place it on your file system, where it also can be accessed by ``bash``.

The adapters and demos are built using ``cmake``:

    mkdir build
    cmake -S. -Bbuild -DSILKIT_PACKAGE_DIR=/path/to/SilKit-x.y.z-$ubuntu/ -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
    cmake --build build --parallel

The adapter executable will be available in ``build/bin`` (depending on the configured build directory).
Additionally the ``SilKit`` shared object (e.g., ``libSilKitd.so``) is copied to that directory automatically.

### Run the SilKitAdapterSocketCAN
This application allows the user to attach virtual CAN interfaces (``SocketCAN``) running in Linux environment to the
SIL Kit.

Before you start the adapter there always needs to be a sil-kit-registry running already. Start it e.g. like this:

    ./path/to/SilKit-x.y.z-$ubuntu/SilKit/bin/sil-kit-registry --listen-uri 'silkit://0.0.0.0:8501'

It is also necessary that a virtual CAN interface is already opened and running in Linux kernel before you run the adapter. This can be done using the following terminal commands: 

    sudo modprobe vcan
    ip link add dev can0 type vcan
    ip link set up can0

**Note:** These commands will open a virtual CAN interface with the name ``can0``.

Now you can run the adapter from terminal. 

The application *optionally* takes the following command line arguments:

    ./build/bin/SilKitAdapterSocketCAN [--name <participant name{SilKitAdapterSocketCAN}>]
                                       [--configuration <path to .silkit.yaml or .json configuration file>]
                                       [--registry-uri silkit://<host{localhost}>:<port{8501}>]
                                       [--log <Trace|Debug|Warn|{Info}|Error|Critical|off>]
                                       [--can-name <vCAN device name{can0}>]
                                       [--network <SIL Kit CAN network{CAN1}>]
                                       [--help]
**Note:** SIL Kit-specific CLI arguments will be overwritten by the config file specified by ``--configuration``.

## SocketCAN Demo
The aim of this demo is to showcase a simple adapter that forwards CAN traffic from Linux terminal running a virtual CAN interface through to
Vector SIL Kit. 

This demo is further explained in [SocketCAN/README.md](SocketCAN/README.md).
